Add meeting notes from 2025-02-25 (#75)
scikit-image/skimage-archive: meeting-notes/2025/2025-02-25_europe_africa_cc.md

# scikit-image Community Call

- **Time:** Tue, 2025-02-25, 18:00 – 19:00 UTC
- **[Join video call via Jitsi](https://meet.evolix.org/skimage-meeting)**
- ~~**[Join video call via Zoom](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/88060567580?pwd=THRpaWFnSFNwK0Fycy9FVk5RYnV5UT09)**~~
- **Notes:** https://hackmd.io/@scientific-python/HJWUBDVNi
- **[scikit-image Community Calendar](https://scientific-python.org/calendars/skimage.ics)**
- **[Archive — Meeting Notes](https://github.com/scikit-image/skimage-archive/tree/main/meeting-notes)**
- **[Code of Conduct](https://scikit-image.org/docs/stable/conduct/code_of_conduct.html)**

**Present:** Aditi, Matthew, Stéfan

## Agenda

> - [Aditi] explaining dispatching in scikit-image to Matthew

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Aditi] explained dispatching in scikit-image to Matthew
```

    - https://github.com/scikit-image/scikit-image/pull/7520
    - https://github.com/Schefflera-Arboricola/skimage-j4f

> - Discussed approaches for automatic testing for backends:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Discussed approaches for automatic testing of backends:
```

    - Which tests to run?

>         - testing only fully supported functions by a backend; cannot test partially supported ones(i.e. that returns `False` at `can_has`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - testing only functions fully supported by a backend;
          cannot test partially supported ones (i.e., that return `False` at `can_has`)
```

>         - Also what about the tests that are not testing a backend supported function but is running a backend supported funtion inside it? should we run that or not? in networkx we do run such functions and `xfails` the rest.(set by an env variable)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Also what about the tests that are not testing a backend-supported function but
          are running a backend-supported function inside of them?
          Should we run them or not? In NetworkX, we do run such functions and `xfails` the rest (set by an env variable).
```

    - can we do automatic testing without the conversion of arrays?

>         - can we make scikit-image's testing code to work with all types of arrays?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - can we make scikit-image's testing code work with all types of arrays?
```

        - testing utility is optional for backends
            - backends supporting numpy arrays can easily test their backend using scikit-image tests just by setting the `SKIMAGE_BACKENDS` env variable
            - backends supporting other than numpy arrays:
                - can either write their own tests

>                 - or can convert their array into numpy array and then run the scikit-image tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                - or first convert their arrays into numpy arrays and then run the scikit-image tests.
```

>                     - conversion could happen either hard coding the testing input arrays into the apt type or having convert functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    - conversion could happen either hard-coding the testing input arrays into the apt type or using conversion functions
```

>             - backend only convert if/when they want to test their backend..

Reviewer: Not sure... "backend(s?) ... their backend?"

>     - [ToDo: Aditi] Create an issue on it for further dicussions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [TODO: Aditi] Create an issue on it for further discussions
```

- How do we see array API adoption and dispatching in scikit-image’s future?

>     - [Stéfan] scikit-image cannot adopt the array api standards because of Cython extensions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [Stéfan] scikit-image cannot adopt the array API standards because of Cython extensions
```
